Hello my name is Brea Moore and I'm an
instructional designer in the Office of
Educational Development. Now that we went over
what the numbers on the item analysis represent,
let's talk about the adjustments you can weigh on
here you can make on your exam. The first of the
adjustments you can make is you can modify the
exam and we'll go over both of these things in
a little bit more detail but this means
you can remove a question from the exam
or you can make a question a bonus. You can choose
to modify the key and the options for modifying
the key or you can accept multiple correct answers
on a question or you can correct a mis-keyed item
and we'll discuss the weight of those adjustments
as well. And finally you can add additional
points. In doing so you can add points to all
students' scores if you felt like there were
several questions that maybe students struggled
with and you want to adjust, or you may choose
to accept all answers to a question. So let's
get started with modifying the exam itself.
So the first choice that you have if you
want to modify exam is removing a question.
So the example we're going to use is an
examination has 25 questions in total.
Your instructional designer has identified three
questions on an item analysis for your review.
As the course director you decide to remove these
three questions from the exam, and this will
be reducing the total possible points to 22. So
let's see how this affects students. Your original
results is student A has 21 out of 25 correct,
for an 84 percent and student b has 21 out of 25
correct for an 84 percent, however the questions
that we are going to look at are questions two
three and four. Those are the questions you've
chosen to remove. As you can see student A
got all three of those questions correct, and
student B got all three of those questions
incorrect. So let's see what starts to happen to
students' scores as we remove those questions.
As soon as we remove question number two,
student A goes down to a 20 out of 24,
and student B goes down to it--goes UP to a
21 out of 24. So as you can see the benefit
of getting the answer correct has now been
removed and the penalty for getting the answer
incorrect has been removed and so the students
scores are going in the opposite directions.
So finally if after we remove all three of the
questions, student A now has an 18 out of 22
and student B has a 21 out of 22. So student B
originally got those three questions incorrect,
now has a much higher score than student A with
a 25 percent. So the most common complaint when
something like this happens from the student
is, "I got the question right, how come my score
is now lower?" So it's it's best to use caution
when choosing to remove a question from the exam.
So if you decide to make a question bonus we're
going to use the same scenario with 25 questions
total, the same three questions, except this time
we're going to make all three questions bonus.
So again questions two three and four and question
or the questions we're looking at, student A and
student B both originate at 84 percent. After the
adjustments are made and student A now has bonus
points for those questions. They are at 21 out
of 22 questions correct and with a 95 percent and
student B also has a 95 percent. Their score
has removed to a 21 out of 22 as well because
the questions were actually removed from the
exam, which took the um total questions possible
down and so both students have a 95 percent. So
students who miss the question still actually
benefit from making it a bonus question because
the questions are no longer figured into the exam.
Now if we choose to modify the key we can do this
in a couple ways. You can accept multiple correct
answers for a question, so maybe you have a
question and it came up on the item analysis
your instructional design marked for your review.
You then looked back through the materials and
found that you not only had one answer on
the question that could have been correct,
but you had a second equally correct answer
and you've chosen to mark that correct now
as well. If there is more than one correct answer
available and the key is modified this gives
credit for all equally correct answers across
the board and so there is no student that will be
lose the benefit of giving multiple correct
answers if they have chosen the same the correct
answers. So number two is correcting a mis-keyed
question. This is (if) you've found a question
on the exam that was miskeyed, you've changed
the key to correct that miss key question. This
gives answers to all the students who answered
the question correctly. Now the most common
misconception that you may hear from students
is, "Why did my score go down? I saw my raw score
on Examsoft, it showed that I had this and now I
have this." And they don't understand that they
actually did not get the question right originally
and that's why their points have been taken away.
So when you're correcting a mis-key question
just be aware that this may take a little
bit of additional explaining to students to
understand why their scores did in fact change.
Now as a benevolent instructor
you may choose to add points.
How can you add points? You can give points
across the top of the exam to all students,
and so you may have found that there were several
questions of difficulty on this exam and you
don't want to change the exam key, you don't want
to make them bonus, you don't want to remove them,
but you feel especially that the students
deserve some extra points and all students
deserve those points equally, therefore
you're just going to give maybe two points
across the board to all students. You can also
choose to accept all answers on a question.
This is the people pleasing solution. All
students benefit from this. You've accepted
all of the answers that may be a question where
your distractors were very similar, it may be a
question where you have discovered the content
was not covered in the way you thought it was,
and so you've chosen to accept all answers. This
is essentially giving a free point to all of the
students. So the biggest takeaway from this
is just to be aware that every adjustment that
you make on your exam will affect a student
either positive or negatively in some way
and that to take those into account as you
start to make your adjustments. Thank you!